BigVGA
======

BigVGA is a library and a command-line tool to set high-resolution text modes
in FreeDOS and other DOS-compatible systems.

WARNING: this is still at the work-in-progres proof-of-concept stage but basic
functionality should already work in QEMU. Try e.g. `bigvga.exe 136x43` to set
a text mode with 136 columns and 43 lines (and approximate 16:9 aspect ratio)
in QEMU. Revert to a normal 80x25 text mode by running the DOS command
`mode co80` or rebooting your system.

Unlike other projects that rely on SuperVGA hardware, BigVGA only uses basic
VGA features.

The main target is emulators (e.g. qemu, dosbox, dosemu, bochs...) but it might
also work on some laptops or LCD screens.

Emulator-specific details
-------------------------

QEMU by default resizes its window in response to screen resize requests from
BigVGA, however if you manually change the QEMU window size all subsequent
requests from BigVGA will only change the state inside the emulator and QEMU
will scale the text to fit into the window size that you previously set. A
downside of this scaling is that text will appear blurry. To switch back the
QEMU window to the "native" unscaled dimensions press CTRL-ALT-U.

Download
--------

BigVGA is free software, released under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file
for details.

The latest version of BigVGA is available at:
https://github.com/LinoMastro/bigvga

Contributing
------------

Bug reports, feature requests and PRs are welcome via the BigVGA GitHub page.

The preferred style and indentation is the one generated by the following GNU
indent command:

    indent -gnu -br -ce -brs -ncs -di4 -i4 -npcs -nut -cli4 -c1 -T FILE *.c *.h
